Welcome back everyone to this lecture on the Select where statement in part one we're just going to
be learning the basic syntax structure and then in part two will actually jump over to P.G. admin and
code out some examples so they select and where statements are really the most fundamental sequel statements
and you're gonna find yourself using them in almost every sequel query you do.
So the where statement allows us to specify conditions on columns for the rows to be returned the basic
syntax would look something like this.
We decide on what columns we want back.
So we'll say select column one column two etc. and then we decide what table we want those columns from
and then after that we can describe conditions.
So we'll say where and then some manner of conditions.
So let's actually go into detail of what those conditions are like the WHERE clause appears immediately
after that from clause of the select statement and then the conditions are used to filter the rows returned
from the select statement and plus Chris equal provides a variety of standard operators to construct
those conditions.
And I want to make it clear that the conditions we show here are available in any major sequel engine.
So it's not just unique to postgrad sequel so we first have the comparison operators and the comparison
operators allow us to compare a column value to something essentially allowing us to answer questions
or queries such as a where's the price greater than three dollars or whereas the pet's name equal to
Sam.
So those kind of statements of greater than or equal to or less than those with the comparison operators
and you're probably familiar with the base syntax operators at least the operator syntax signs because
they're just basic math.
So for example if we want to check for equality we just use the equals sign.
Then we also have the greater than and less than sign the greater than equal to signs and then even
the not equal to.
And there's two ways of doing not equal to impose cross equal.
You can have a less than greater than sign right next to each other or the more common way is a new
exclamation mark and then equal sine.
In addition to those we have the logical operators and that allows us to combine multiple comparison
operators or affect comparison operators.
So you're also probably familiar if these ideas have and or not and they essentially allow you to use
multiple comparison operators you can do something like condition one has to be true and condition two
has to be true or condition one is true or condition to two is true and then you have the not operator
which essentially means the opposite of whatever condition you're specifying.
So where this condition is not true so it's actually walk through the very basic syntax of what this
would look like and we'll do this for the example table we saw before where we have some names and some
color choices so in order to get back both columns from the table we could just say something like select
the name common choice columns from table.
So now let's try to get only the people named David.
So there's a condition there where I want the name column to be equal to the string.
DAVID So the way I do this as I say select the name column and the choice column from table where it
name is equal to David.
And note here plus Chris equal use single quotes in order to denote these strings and also more checking
for equality here the capitalization does matter also keep in mind that I selected both the name and
the choice column here.
I could if I wanted to just select the name column from table where names equal to David and then I
would just get back the entries on the name column.
So it's not terribly useful.
So keep in mind you're probably gonna ask for more than just a column where you're filtering these conditions
on just as asking for name and choice let's imagine I wanted to do multiple conditions so previously
I have to David's here where we have green and red I can use those logical operators such as the end
keyboard to test for multiple conditions.
So here I'm grabbing the name and choice column from this table where the name is equal to David and
the choice is equal to red returning back the single row where both those conditions have to be true.
OK let's go ahead and see you in the next lecture in part 2 or we jumped the PGI admin and worked through
a bunch of examples available to us inside the DVD rental database.
I'll see you there.